Hello this is Carol and a warm welcome back to the course on Tableau.
Happy to see you here.
Last time we left off after creating our first calculate field which is total sales and you can see
it over here on the left I just wanted to mention that creating calculated field is a very important
aspect of working of Tableau because you will often find that the data that you have does not have the
right level or does not have the right variables for you to work with.
It does have the information there but it's not in the right format it's not aggregated properly or
correctly for your needs or it doesn't have the right level of detail or or other things so you will
be inevitably working a lot of calculated fields.
This was a very simple example of a calculated field where we just multiplied two values but tableau
has very vast functionality in this space and allows you to create just insanely helpful calculated
fields and we will be working with them going forward.
So that's why I kind of put it at the beginning of the course.
You get used to it.
As we get it go along.
All right.
So today we're talking about colors.
Colors are important because as you'll probably hear me say quite often data science is not just about
crunching numbers.
It's a form of art.
It's a form of communication.
It's it's a very creative activity or profession.
So get get used to work or colors you will you will need this skill.
OK.
So let's get straight into it.
How can we color this chart.
Imagine that this picture has to go into a presentation for the executives of the company who will be
distributing these bonuses or maybe even this picture will be
hung up somewhere on a wall so that everybody can see so you don't want it to be playing like this you
wanted to be colorful and bright.
So we need to use this color button over here and there are many different ways that we can do it.
First of all what we can do right away is just change the color.
We can change it to red.
We can change to green we can change to basically any color.
And that's kind of the basic thing that you can do here which you can choose more colors and then you
can choose.
You can choose even more colors.
It's all it's all under control here.
What else you can do is you can change the transparency but there's nothing behind it so there's not
much point you can at a border make that border thicker.
Think or make that change the color of the border if you want but we won't be doing that right now as
well.
What we want.
We want kind of the colors to differ from bar to bar so the first thing you can do is you can take your
representative and let's say from here and drag him onto the color button.
And what that will do is we'll give each representative a unique color and we'll give you a code legend
over here.
So as you can see the color legend matches your column names.
So Matthew is blue Matthew's blue here Susan's light blue suit is light here as well.
I wanted to show you a quick tip here as well.
So by the way going forward I'll be showing you quick tips along the way which I will be using just
because they're kind of a habit.
And I think you should get into a habit of using them too so just keep track of when when I give out
these quick tips because they will be very helpful.
So let's take out the representative and instead of taking nervous entered from here and dragging him
onto the color what we can do is take represented from here.
Whole hold him as you know if I just drag him onto the call now then it'll screw up the installation
because now he's no longer.
Or this column or this dimensions the longer in the columns so I'm going to press conference Z now.
What you need to do is you hold him or hold this dimension.
You drag him and you press control and you can see this little plus sign up here under your mouse.
And then when you let go you basically copy that dimension onto this new role.
And it's still in the columns.
So that's an easy way especially when you have like 100 or 100 maybe too much like thirty four dimensions
here might be hard looking for it when you know exactly what you want.
It's already on on your chart.
You just drag it like that.
Control.
OK.
So we've got the representative here.
And now if we're not happy with the colors we can just click colors edit colors and choose a different
color palette.
So tableau has a lot of different color palettes that are really built in right now is using Tableau
20 so you can say how about we go for purple great 12 you click a signed palette announces sign a purple
gray palette that looks pretty cool doesn't it.
Now we can also another good one is color blind.
So just to be cautious of color of people who might be called blind just click a side palette there.
It will tell you that your colors are being duplicated because you have less colors than people but
you know what that might be OK for you as long as you want because you do have the names underneath
so it might not be a problem anyway.
I don't think this is the best way to color this chart.
Let's have a look at another one.
So I'm going to I'm going to actually leave representative in color for now and what we'll do is we'll
take some of total sales price control and we'll drag that into color as you can see representative
has been replaced and now some of total sales is dictated to color.
And now it's it's not a discrete color.
It's a continuous color.
And so the more cells you've had the darker your color the less sales you've had the lighter your color.
Also quite useful but in our case it's not the best because we already see the size of the bar and it
tells us how much sales each person has had.
So maybe maybe a different approach.
My favorite one in this particular case will be if I take region and I drag region on color by the way
I'll just controls that you will see that I can also drag region control and then replace this current
dimension that's in color or not in dimension.
This is the measure.
So replace that.
And now you can see that your bars have been colored by region and I think personally to me this appeals
the most because I can.
Right away visually see that these are three distinct regions or three distinct elements and that kind
of also backs the idea behind why there's three bonuses and that these people don't have to be compared
to these people and these people don't have to be compared to the rest of them.
And so personally I would leave it at that.
And that's how you work with colors in tableau.
We will definitely be talking more about colors along the way in this course.
This is just the basics and have a play around with that see what personally appealed to you the most
and it's you know it's a very individual preference so fine find your style and I look forward to talking
to next time when we'll be discussing labels and formatting making our child look really appealing and
until next time.
Have you analyzed.